
	"abioptic": Not diagnosed with a sample of tissue from a patient.

	"acute": Short term duration.

	"Addison's Disease": Chronic adrenal insufficiency leading to very
	    low blood pressure and coma.

	"albuminemia": Deficiency of albumin in the blood.

	"apoplexy": Obsolete terminology for a stroke.

	"epileptic": Subject to seizures that are not related to an infection.

	"arterio-sclerosis":
	    This is properly <i>atherosclerosis</i>, congestion of the arteries
	    due to the accumulation of fatty deposits on the lining.

	"ascites": The accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity, 
		causing abdominal swelling.

	"asthenia": Lack or loss of strength and energy.

	"Ataxia": lack of voluntary control of muscle movements.

	"atelectasis": collapse or closure of the lung

	"Atherosclerosis": Congestion of the arteries
	    due to the accumulation of fatty deposits on the lining.

	"atheroma": a fatty deposit on the inner lining of an artery
	    resulting from <i>atherosclerosis</i>.

	"auto-intoxication": Self-poisoning resulting from the absorption
	    of waste products of metabolism.	

	"bulbar palsy": Impairment of function of cranial nerves.

	"cachexia": weakness and wasting of the body due to severe
		chronic illness.

	"carbuncle": Abscess larger than a boil.

	"carcinoma": a type of cancer that develops from epithelial cells
		that line the inner or outer surfaces of the body.

	"catarrh": Disorder of inflammation of the mucous membranes
	    typically producing phlegm.  Frequently misapplied in the 
	    19th century.

	"cholecystitis": Inflammation of the gallbladder.

	"cholelithiasis": the presence of one or more calculi (gallstones)
	    in the gallbladder.

	"cholangitis": inflammation of the bile duct.

	"cyanosis": the appearance of a blue or purple colouration of the
	    skin or mucous membranes due to low oxygen saturation.

	"Cholera infantum, or, as this form of disease is generally termed, 
	    "summer complaint," comprises all the various diseases of the 
	    digestive organs and brain with which children are attacked 
	    during the summer, and most frequently during dentition, during 
	    their second summer.' <i>Adolphe Lippe</i> (1812-1888)

	"confinement": The period from the onset of labour to the birth
	    of a child.  As a cause of death generally 
	    <a href='http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eclampsia'>eclampsia</a>, 
	    an acute complication of pregnancy characterized by seizures and 
	    coma.

	"Brain Congestion" swelling of the brain due to trauma or infection.
	    The swelling cuts off arterial blood flow to parts of the brain.
	    Frequently misapplied in the 19th century, for example to ischemic
	    stroke.

	"Hypostatic Congestion": Congestion caused by poor cirulation and
	    settling of venous blood in the lower part of an organ. 

	"Congestion" is an abnormal accumulation of a body fluid.

	"consumption": Tuberculosis of the lungs.  Throughout history
	    the single most deadly disease, particularly of young adults.

	"cystitis": Infection of the bladder.

	"Cardiac decompensation" may refer to the failure of the heart to
	    maintain adequate blood circulation.

	"Senile dementia" is severe mental deterioration in old age, 
	    characterized by loss of memory and control of bodily functions.

	"Dementia" is any psychotic disorder.

	"dilatation of the heart": Compensatory enlargement of the 
	    cavities of the heart, with thinning of its walls.

	"Diphtheria" (Greek διφθέρα (diphthera) "pair of leather scrolls") 
	    is an upper respiratory tract illness caused by 
	    <i>Corynebacterium diphtheriae</i>. It is characterized by sore
	    throat, low fever, and an adherent membrane on the tonsils,
	    pharynx, and/or nasal cavity

	"Bright's Disease": Historical classification of kidney diseases
	    that would be described in modern medicine as acute or chronic
	    nephritis, inflammation of the kidneys.

	"Pott's Disease": A form of tuberculosis that occurs outside
	    the lungs where the disease attacks the vertebrae.
	    Also called tuberculous spondylitis.  It has been found in
	    ancient Egyptian mummies.

	"dropsy" is an abnormal accumulation of fluid beneath the skin or
	    in one or more cavities of the body.  This is an obsolete term
	    replaced by <a href='http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edema'>edema</a>.

	"Dysentery" is an inflammatory disorder of the intestine,
	    especially of the colon, that results in severe diarrhea
	    containing blood and mucus in the feces with fever and abdominal 
	    pain, caused by any kind of infection.

	"Dyspepsia", also known as indigestion, is a condition of impaired
	    digestion.

	"Dystocia" is an abnormal or difficult childbirth or labour. 

	"Eclampsia" is an acute and life-threatening complication of
	    pregnancy, characterized by the appearance of seizures, usually
	    in a patient who has developed pre-eclampsia. (Pre-eclampsia and
	    eclampsia are collectively called Hypertensive disorder of
	    pregnancy and toxemia of pregnancy.)

	"Edema" is an abnormal accumulation of fluid beneath the skin or
	    in one or more cavities of the body. 

	"Embolism" is an obstruction in a blood vessel due to a blood
	    clot or other foreign matter that gets stuck while traveling
	    through the bloodstream.

	"Embolus" is a mass of clotted blood or other material brought 
	    by the blood from one vessel and forced into a smaller one,
	    obstructing the circulation.

	    Emphysema is a long-term lung disease. In people with emphysema, 
	    the tissues necessary to support the shape and function of the
	    lungs are destroyed.

	"Encephalitis" is an inflammation of the brain.

	"Enteric Fever" is also known as Typhoid Fever.

	"Enteritis" is an inflammation of the small intestine.

	"Erysipelas" is an acute streptococcus bacterial infection of the 
	    upper dermis and superficial lymphatics.

	"Excitement" as a medical term refers to the now discredited
	    theories of the 18th century Scottish medical educator Dr. 
	    <a href='http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Cullen'>William
	    Cullen</a> that supposed that some medical
	    conditions arose out of an excess or lack of excitation.

	"exophthalmic": characterized by protruding eyeballs.  Symptom of
	    hyperthyroidism including Graves' disease.

	"fibroid": characterized by fibrous scars.

	"fistula": an abnormal connection or passageway between two 
	    epithelium-lined organs or vessels.

	"Influenza" is an acute respiratory disease caused by a virus.
	    The word entered the English language from Spanish as a result of
	    military secrecy during World War I.  Soldiers on both sides of
	    the conflict were affected in epidemic numbers but this was not
	    revealed to the public.  Only in Spain, which was a non-combatant,
	    was the epidemic reported, so it became known by its Spanish
	    name.  Previously the symptoms would have been reported as
	"cattarh" or "la Grippe".

	"Intussusception" is a condition in which part of the intestines 
	    folds into another section ot intestine.  This can often result
	    in an obstruction.

	"Gangrene" is a serious and potentially life-threatening condition
	    that arises when a considerable mass of body tissue dies
	    (necrosis).
	"Gas gangrene" (also known as "Clostridial myonecrosis", and
	    "Myonecrosis") is a bacterial infection that produces gas in
	    tissues in gangrene.

	"Gastritis" is an inflammation of the lining of the stomach.

	"Glossolaryngeal": having to do with the tongue and larynx.

	"Goitre" is swelling of the thyroid gland, which can lead to a
	    swelling of the neck or larynx.

	"Graves' disease" is an autoimmune disease. It most commonly
	    affects the thyroid, frequently causing it to enlarge to twice
	    its size or more (goitre).

	"Gravel" is a deposit of small calculous concretions, usually of 
	    uric acid, calcium oxalate, or phosphates, in the 
	    kidneys and urinary bladder.  Also known as uropsammus.

	"Paris green", or copper(II) acetoarsenite, is a highly toxic
	    crystalline powder developed as a pesticide but also formerly used
	    as a pigment.

	"la Grippe": this is the term commonly used prior to
	    1918 for the disease now known as influenza or the common cold.  

	"Haematemesis" is vomiting up of blood.

	"Haemophilia" is a group of rare hereditary disorders in which
	    the blood does not clot normally and therefore injuries do not
	    heal properly.

	"Haemorrhage" is profuse bleeding from ruptured blood vessels.

	"Hemiplegia" is a symptom of stroke in which one side of the body
	    becomes weak.

	"Hepatic": having to do with the liver.

	"Hepatitis": inflammation of the liver.

	"Hodgkin's Lymphoma" is a type of cancer originating from white
	    blood cells called lymphocytes which spreads from one lymph node
	    to another.

	"Hydrocephalus": an abnormal accumulation of cerebro-spinal fluid
	    in the cavities of the brain.

	"Hyperaemia": engorgement; an excess of blood in an organ.

	"Hypertrophy": excessive enlargement.

	"Uraemic": having to do with kidney failure.

	"Inanition": exhaustion cause by lack of food and water.

	"Infarction": tissue death due to a local lack of oxygen as a 
	    result of an obstruction of the tissue's blood supply.

	"Ischemia" is an insufficient supply of blood to an organ, 
	    usually due to a blocked artery.

	"Jaundice": a yellowish pigmentation of the skin and mucous
	    membranes cause by increased levels of bilirubin in the blood.
	    Usually associated with liver disease.

	"Milk Leg": Post-partum blood clots in the legs.

	"Encephalitis Lethargica": Between 1915 and 1926 an epidemic
	    of atypical encephalitis characterized by drowsiness and high
	    rates of death swept the world.  
	    It was first described in 1917 by the
	    neurologist Constantin von Economo and the pathologist
	    Jean-Rene Cruchet. 

	"Lethargica": characterized by lower level of consciousness.

	"Lethargy": a lowered level of consciousness, with drowsiness,
	    listlessness, and apathy.

	"Leukemia": a cancer of the blood or bone marrow characterized
	    by an abnormal increase of immature white blood cells.

	"Lymphadenoma": swelling of lymph nodes.`

	"marasmus": severe malnutrition characterized by a lack of energy.

	"meningitis": inflammation of the protective membranes covering the
	    brain and spinal cord.

	"mitral valve": the valve in the heart that lies between the
	    left atrium and the left ventricle.  The name comes from the
	    similarity in appearance to a mitre.

	"metritis": inflammation of the wall of the uterus.  More commonly
	    this is now called Pelvic Inflammatory Disease.

	"cholera morbus": used in the 19th and early 20th centuries to
		describe both non-epidemic cholera and gastrointestinal 
		diseases that mimicked cholera. In particular it was used for
		gastro-intestinal diseases suffered by young children
		during the transition to solid food.

	"Myocardial": having to do with the heart muscle.

	"Myocarditis": inflammation of the heart muscle due to an infection.

	"Nephritis": inflammation of the kidneys.

	"Neuralgia": nerve pain that is not a result of excitation of
	    healthy pain receptors.

	"Otitis": inflammation of the ear.

	"Paraplegia": impairment in motor or sensory function of the
	    lower extremities, typically as a result of damage to the
	    spinal cord.

	"Paresis": a condition typified by a weakness of voluntary
	    movement.

	"Pellagra": a vitamin deficiency disease most commonly caused by
	    a chronic lack of niacin in the diet.

	"Peritonitis": inflamation of the tissue that lines the inner wall
	    of the abdomen and covers most of the abdominal organs.

	"Pernicious Anaemia": a decrease in red blood cells that occurs 
	    when the intestines cannot properly absorb vitamin B12.
	    The "pernicious" aspect of the disease was its invariably
	    fatal prognosis prior to the discovery of treatment. 

	"Phthisis": a disease characterized by the wasting away or atrophy
	    of the body or a part of the body.  Frequently pulmonary 
	    tuberculosis.

	"Pleurisy": painful inflammation of the lining of the cavity
	    surrounding the lungs.

	"Hypostatic pneumonia" usually results from the collection of 
	    fluid in the back of the lungs and occurs especially 
	    in those confined to a bed for extended periods.

	"Pneumonia" is an inflammatory infection of the lungs, and in
	    particular the little air sacs called alveoli.  It is very
	    common as a complication of other conditions that result in
	    reduced immune response.

	"Pott's disease": tuberculosis presenting in any other organ
	    other than the lung, for example in the spine.

	"Dementia Praecox", literally precocious madness, refers to
	    a deteriorating psychotic condition that begins in the late
	    teens or early adulthood.  Schizophrenia. 

	"Puerperal fever": a bacterial infection contracted by women
	    during childbirth or miscarriage.  Prior to the introduction of
	    antibiotics it would develop into septicaemia which is
	    frequently fatal.  The typical source of the infection was the
	    unwashed hands of the doctor or midwife.

	"Pyaemia": a type of septicaemia that leads to widespread
	    abscesses.

	"Pyelitis": inflammation of the renal pelvis.

	"Pyorrhea": purulent inflamation of the gums and tooth sockets.

	"Pyonephrosis": an infection of the renal collecting system
	    resulting in the accumulation of pus.

	"Quinsy": is a rare and potentially serious complication of
	    tonsillitis.  An abscess, a collection of pus, forms between the
	    tonsil and the wall of the throat.  This can happen when a
	    bacterial infection spreads from an infected tonsil to the
	    surrounding tissue.
	"Remittent Fever": a fever in which the symptoms temporarily abate
	    at regular intervals, but do not wholly cease.
	    Causes include typhoid and infectious mononucleosis.

	"Sarcoma": a cancer that arises from transformed cells of 
	    mesenchymal origin.
	    resulting in the accumulation of pus.

	"Scarlet Fever":  An infectious disease which most commonly
	    affects 4 to 8 year old children. Symptoms include sore throat,
	    fever, and a red rash.

	"Arterio- or Arterial sclerosis":
	    This is properly <i>atherosclerosis</i>, congestion of the arteries
	    due to the accumulation of fatty deposits on the lining.

	"Sclerosis": a hardening of tissue, usually caused by a
	    replacement of the normal organ-specific tissue with
	    connective tissue.

	"Scrofula": inflammation of the cervical lymph nodes in the neck due
	    to infection by mycobacteria, frequently a symptom of tuberculosis.

	"Septicaemia": an infection in which large numbers of bacteria are
	    present in the blood.  It is commonly referred to as
	    blood poisoning.

	"Softening of the Brain" is mental deterioration in old age, 
	    characterized by loss of memory and control of bodily functions.
	    senile dementia.

	"Stenosis": an abnormal narrowing of a blood vessel or other
	    tubular organ or structure.

	"Tetanus": a medical condition characterized by a prolonged
	    contraction of skeletal muscle fibers.  This is usually as a
	    result of contamination of a wound.

	"Thrombosis": the formation of a blood clot inside a blood
	    vessel, obstructing the flow of blood through the circulatory
	    system.

	"Thrush": an infection, typically of the mouth, caused by the 
	    candida fungus, also known as yeast.

	"Toxaemia":  An abnormal condition of pregnancy characterized by
	    hypertension, edema, and protein in the urine as a result of
	    the presence of bacterial toxins in the blood.

	"Trismus": reduced opening of the jaws caused by spasm of the
	    muscles of mastication. 

	"Typhoid Fever":  A common bacterial disease transmitted by
	    the ingestion of food or water contaminated with the feces of
	    an infected person.

	"Typhus": any of a number of diseases transmitted by rickettsia
	    bacteria.  Epidemic typhus is transmitted by lice.

	"Tuberculosis":  A common bacterial disease that typically 
	    attacks the lungs, but can affect other organs.  Symptoms
	    include chronic cough, fever, and weight loss.  Tuberculosis
	    has killed more people throughout human history than any
	    other disease.

	"Uraemia": the disease accompanying kidney failure.

	"Lupus Vulgaris": painful cutaneous tuberculosis skin lesions
	    with nodular appearance.
	    

